<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_byh_v1w_zn">
  <title>Domain Vocabulary Modules</title>
  <body>
    <p>Domain vocabulary modules provide sets of industry-specific elements/attributes that
      complement the existing DITA domain vocabulary modules. </p>
    <p>The two challenges for DITA implementers in this area are: </p>
    <ul id="ul_nz5_rgg_c4">
      <li><i>Mappings to default DITA 1.3 vocabulary elements</i>: For every semantic element or
        style in your current implementation, attempt to map it to an existing DITA vocabulary
        element.</li>
      <li><i>Mappings to company- or product-specific specialized vocabulary elements</i>: If you
        have unique, semantically significant elements or styles in your current sources, develop
        and test a prototype vocabulary domain for your particular company or product line.  </li>
    </ul>
    <p>The following tables provide an overview of many of the most popular DITA vocabulary domain
      elements. </p>
    <section>
      <title>DITA 1.2 Vocabulary Modules</title>
      <p>
        <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 3.88*" id="simpletable_cwg_xpd_c4">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Vocabulary Module</stentry>
            <stentry>Description</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Indexing</stentry>
            <stentry>The indexing domain provides several new elements for use with indexing. The
              new elements allow authors to define "See" and "See also" references, and to override
              the default sort order for a term.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Highlight</stentry>
            <stentry>The typographic elements are used to highlight text with styles (such as bold,
              italic, and monospace). Never use these elements when a semantically specific element
              is available. These elements are not intended for use by specializers, and are
              intended solely for use by authors when no semantically appropriate element is
              available and a formatting effect is required.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Programming</stentry>
            <stentry>The programming domain elements are used to define the syntax and to give
              examples of programming
              languages.<codeblock>apiname (API name), codeblock (code block),
 codeph (code phrase), option (one of a set of options),
 parmname (parameter or argument), parml (parameter list),
 plentry (parameter list entry), pt (parameter term),
 pd (parameter definition), synph (syntax phrase),
 syntaxdiagram (syntax diagram)</codeblock></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Software</stentry>
            <stentry>The software domain elements are used to describe the operation of a software
              program.<codeblock>msgph (message phrase), msgblock (message block), 
msgnum (message number), cmdname (command name),
varname (variable name), filepath (filename, path, or URI),
userinput (user input), systemoutput (system output)
</codeblock></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>User Interface </stentry>
            <stentry>The user interface domain elements are used to describe the user interface of a
              software
              program.<codeblock>uicontrol (user interface control), wintitle (window title),
menucascade (menu cascade), shortcut (shortcut),
screen (screen text)</codeblock></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Utilities </stentry>
            <stentry>The utilities domain elements represent common features of a language that may
              not necessarily be semantic, such as image maps.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Map Group</stentry>
            <stentry>The mapgroup domain elements define, group, or reference content.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>xNAL</stentry>
            <stentry>The xNAL domain elements represent a subset of the Extensible Name and Address
              Standard. The domain can be included in any topic type or map, although the
              implementations provided by OASIS only include it in the bookmap specialization. It is
              used to encode information about the author or authors of DITA information.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Hazard Statement</stentry>
            <stentry>The hazard statement domain elements represent labeling for product safety
              hazards that readers need to be aware of. The domain can be included in any topic type
              or map. Its elements are used to inform readers about potential hazards, consequences,
              and avoidance
              strategies.<codeblock>&lt;hazardstatement>, &lt;messagepanel>,
&lt;typeofhazard>, &lt;consequence>, &lt;howtoavoid>
&lt;hazardsymbol></codeblock></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Machine Industry</stentry>
            <stentry>The machine-industry task domain contains elements for use describing tasks
              that involve machines or other pieces of hardware.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Delay Resolution </stentry>
            <stentry>The delayed conref resolution domain provides several elements for use when
              using DITA in situations that enable delayed or run time resolution of conref. The
              elements allow users to resolve some conref values statically, while delaying others
              for later resolution.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Abbreviate</stentry>
            <stentry>The abbreviate domain element is used to represent a reference to a term that
              may appear in an abbreviated form (often an acronym).</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Glossref </stentry>
            <stentry>The glossref domain elements are convenience elements that are used to
              reference glossary topics or to reference multiple topics in a single
              collection.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Classify</stentry>
            <stentry>The classification domain elements are used to identify subjects covered by the
              content</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Learning</stentry>
            <stentry>The learning domain elements represent the base elements that are used to
              create learning and training content.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Learning Interaction Base </stentry>
            <stentry>The learning interaction base domain defines an "abstract" base type for all
              learning assessments.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Learning Map</stentry>
            <stentry>The learning and training map domain organizes groups of topics as learning
              objects</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Learning Metadata </stentry>
            <stentry>The learning and training metadata domain describes specific characteristics of
              the learning content.</stentry>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DITA 1.3 Vocabulary Modules</title>
      <p>The following modules are scheduled to ship with DITA 1.3.</p>
      <p>
        <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 3.65*" id="simpletable_zfs_pbg_c4">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Vocabulary Module</stentry>
            <stentry>Description</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>
              <p>MathML</p>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>
              <p>Semantic equations independent of the data format of the equation content</p>
              <codeblock>&lt;mathml>&lt;mathmlref></codeblock>
              <codeblock>&lt;equation-block>&lt;equation-number>
&lt;equation-inline>&lt;equation-figure></codeblock>
              <note>This domain was originally developed by Eliot Kimber as part of the
                DITA4Publishers package. </note>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>
              <p>markupDomain</p>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>
              <p>An XML-mention domain for marking up mentions of XML syntactic components</p>
              <codeblock>&lt;markupname></codeblock>
              <note>This domain was originally developed by Eliot Kimber as part of the
                DITA4Publishers package. </note>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>
              <p>xmlDomain</p>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>
              <p>A module defining XML-specific markup naming elements</p>
              <codeblock>&lt;numcharref>, &lt;parameterentity>, 
&lt;textentity>, &lt;xmlatt>, &lt;xmlelement>, 
&lt;xmlnsname>, &lt;xmlpi></codeblock>
              <note>This domain was originally developed by Eliot Kimber as part of the
                DITA4Publishers package. </note>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>
              <p>svgDomain</p>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>
              <p>A module to support inline and referenced SVG content</p>
              <codeblock>&lt;svg_container>, &lt;svgref></codeblock>
              <note>This domain was originally developed by Eliot Kimber as part of the
                DITA4Publishers package. </note>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DITA4Publishers Vocabulary Domains</title>
      <p>The following vocabulary domains ship with the DITA4Publishers package. Although these
        domains are <i>not</i> part of any approved DITA release,  they are useful examples of
        tactically defined vocabulary domains. </p>
      <p>
        <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 3.65*" id="simpletable_qws_dfg_c4">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>=Vocabulary Module</stentry>
            <stentry>Description</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>
              <p>Ruby</p>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>
              <p>Ruby markup vocabulary in support of HTML5</p>
              <codeblock>&lt;ruby>&lt;frb>&lt;rt>&lt;rt></codeblock>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>
              <p>Verse (poetry)</p>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>
              <p>Markup for poetry components</p>
              <codeblock>&lt;verse>&lt;stanza>&lt;verse-line></codeblock>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
